From unexplained vibrating spheres to an ancient
Egyptian scroll full of spells, here are 10
of the strangest artifacts to ever be found….
10.
The Betz Mystery Sphere
On May 26th, 1974, the Betz family were looking
at the damage caused by a brush fire across
their land near Jacksonville, Florida, when
they found a strange sphere.
It was just less than 8 inches in diameter,
made from metal, and highly polished.
The only mark on its surface was a triangular
shape that had been stamped onto it.
They immediately knew there was something
strange about this 22 pound (9.9kg) object,
so they took it back home.
From there things got weird.
A few weeks later, the son was strumming his
guitar, and the orb started to vibrate in
a similar way to a tuning fork.
It also started emitting a high frequency
noise that panicked the family’s dog.
Then they found that, when they rolled it
across the floor, the orb would stop, and
then roll in a different direction.
Furthermore, it responded to weather- becoming
more active on sunny days than overcast ones.
The family started hiding it away in a bag
at night so it couldn't escape.
Was it a downed satellite of some sort?
Did it belong to NASA, or was it a Soviet
space probe?
The sphere became notorious, but has never
truly been explained.
The US Government said it didn’t belong
to them.
But, it was kind of similar to a sea bottom
marker to assist missile launching submarines
by giving them a reference point.
Some think it’s an alien probe, others that
it’s an ancient object of religious significance.
Perhaps the most logical answer is that it
was a part of an artist’s project…
In any case, the location of the sphere is
unknown.
Imagine if the proof of extraterrestrial intelligence
were just sitting in a box somewhere….
9.
The Holy Right Hand
On August 15, 1038, St. Stephen, the first
king of Hungary, was buried in a sarcophagus
and then moved to an underground catacomb
to protect his remains.
When this happened, someone decided to remove
his right hand because it was believed to
have miraculous properties, and it was put
in the treasury of the Basilica.
Ironically, the guard in charge of protecting
the treasury actually stole it and kept it
in his estate.
The thief was forgiven (miraculously!) and
the hand was later recovered and taken back
to his burial place at some point in the 16th
century.
It is now housed in St. Stephen's Basilica
in Budapest, and once a year on August 20th,
is paraded as a part of the Holy Right Hand
procession, promising good luck to any who
witness it.
There’s some confusion as to whether this
hand is actually that of St. Stephens, though.
Earlier descriptions mention it wearing a
ring, which was proof that it belonged to
the king, but this ring is nowhere to be seen.
Furthermore, the coat of arms, where the hand
was once kept, shows an arm as well as the
hand- so where did St. Stephens arm end up,
and who detached it from the hand?
In 2000, the hand and the arm were put on
display, but the arm bone turned out to be
a fibula from a right leg.
With religious artifacts, it’s hard to tell
since they have survived theft, war, and all
kinds of destruction.
Who knows where his hand might be?
One thing’s for sure, there are bits and
pieces of St. Stephen located all over the
world.
And now for the Amazing Aluminum Wedge, but
first if you are new here be sure to subscribe
so you don’t miss out on the latest vids!!
For you returning subs, welcome back!
I missed you!!
8.
The Aiud Aluminum Wedge
The Aiud Aluminum wedge was found in a trench
along Romania’s Mures river in 1974.
In itself, this wouldn’t be particularly
strange, but the location in which it was
found, and the tests results from analyzing
the object, point to something very peculiar.
It was discovered next to a set of mastodon
bones, and if it was the same age as them
it would be 11,000 years old.
The surrounding rocks and sediment suggest
that objects in that place are at least 10,000
years old.
The wedge was sent for much testing, and was
found to be 89% Aluminum, along with traces
of copper, silicon, zinc, lead, and a number
of other elements.
Scientists believe it is not a natural formation.
The results of dating were the most interesting,
though, and while it proved that the object
wasn’t anywhere near as old as the mastodon
bones, two independent tests determined that
it was about 400 years old.
This still predates Aluminum manufacturing
by 200 years, and raises questions of how
that could be possible, and why it ended up
where it did!
Some people argue that it is a fragment of
an ancient UFO!
Because...why not??
7.
The Klerksdorp Spheres
The Klerksdorp spheres are a series of objects
that have been retrieved from mines around
Ottosdal, South Africa, from pyrophyllite
deposits that are more than 3 billion years
old.
They range in size between a quarter of an
inch to 4 inches in diameter, and some of
them have clear, defined grooves and ridges
around them.
Some are spherical, and some are flattened
spheres, and they all range from a dark reddish
brown to a dusky red colour.
The spheres have been subject to much debate
because they seem too perfectly round to have
been naturally formed.
Some claim that they are evidence of intelligent
beings being present on the earth billions
of years ago, and that they could even be
a form of information technology.
Tests on the spheres, though, support the
theory that they have been formed by geological
processes- the grooves occurred when minerals
formed in the space between sediments, and
the shapes are formed as a result of weathering
processes of millions of years.
Nature can make perfect shapes too!!
6.
The Ubaid Lizard Man
Very little is known about the ancient Ubaidian
culture that lived in Mesopotamia between
5500 and 4000 BC.
I mean, it was a long time ago!
What we do know is that they lived in mud
brick houses that were arranged into large
settlements, and that they used irrigation
to farm the land.
It was a discovery made during excavation
of a site called Tell Al’Ubaid that uncovered
some small sculptures, which have become known
as the lizard men.
They have long heads, oval eyes, tapered faces,
and lizard noses.
They are all depicted in different positions,
with some even having children that are lizard
like and suckling milk.
With so little known about the Ubaidians,
it’s not entirely clear what these figurines
are meant to represent.
Were they ritualistic objects dedicated to
a reptilian god, or even realistic representations
of the people themselves?
It’s clear that there’s a lot more to
be learned about one of the oldest cultures
that we know of, and plenty more secrets to
be revealed.
5.
Four Golden Hats
In the past 200 years, 4 golden hats have
been found in Europe that date back to the
bronze age!
As of yet, no-one knows who made them, why
they were forged, or what their purpose was.
The first to be discovered was the Golden
Hat of Schifferstadt, which was found in Germany
in 1835.
It seemed to have been intentionally buried,
and is the shortest of the four at almost
1 foot (30.5 cm) tall.
It has a number of concentric rings and other
designs, and is thought to have been made
at some point between 1400 and 1300 BC.
Two more hats have been found in Germany,
with another in France.
All of them are different shapes and sizes,
and forged about 300 years later than the
first one that was unearthed.
There are several suggestions as to what they
were used for- ranging from symbols of fertility,
to suits of armour.
Researchers currently believe they were owned
by priests of the time, with the symbols relating
to astrological events that they would have
used to predict the seasons, the weather and,
most importantly, when to harvest.
Further research is needed to fully understand
these hats, though, and perhaps there are
many more just waiting to be found.
4.
The Coso Artifact
In February of 1961, the owners of a California
gemstone shop were searching for geodes in
the mountains near Olancha, California.
They collected a bunch of rocks and it turns
out they found something quite unusual.
When they were sawing open the rocks, one
of them nearly broke the diamond saw blade
that they were using.
And instead of revealing an empty cavity like
you would expect with a geode, they found
a hard, porcelain-type material.
It was a perfect cylinder of porcelain and
inside, was a 2 millimeter shaft of bright
metal that turned out to be magnetic!!
So what the heck was this object?
The outer layer of specimen was encrusted
with fossil shells and other fragments that
would have taken more than half a million
years to form.
There were other metal objects in the crust
and there was a layer of decomposing copper
surrounding the porcelain.
This seemed to be a human-made object, so
what were all of these things, fossils and
metals all doing together?
The porcelain and the magnetic metal couldn’t
have been the same age as the fossils.
But what was it?
And how did it get to be inside the rock?
There are no convincing answers to explain
this and, since then, very few people have
been allowed to to inspect the object.
2 of the discoverers are deceased and the
other is avoiding any public comment.
The whereabouts of the object are unknown
and it is suspected it was destroyed.
This is a mystery that will probably be left
unsolved.
3.
The Dropa Stones
In 1938, a expedition set off to explore a
little known region in the Baian-Kara-Ula
mountains on the border of China and Tibet.
Near the summit of the mountains they found
a network of caves, where the walls were decorated
with images of people with elongated heads
and representations of heavenly objects.
In the ground, researchers found a number
of graves.
Inside, they found unusual skeletons that
were about 3 feet tall, with unusually large
skulls, but the strangest things (and most
famous things) that were discovered became
known as the Dropa stones.
These spherical disks were 12 inches in diameter,
had a hole in the centre, and grooves that
spiralled outwards.
In total, 716 of these stones have been found,
and, upon closer inspection, the grooves turned
out to be intricate carvings.
The professor who studied these stones in
Beijing said that after translating the mysterious
language, the stones told the story of alien
visitors that arrived 12,000 years ago that
became stranded on the planet.
The professor was forced to resign and the
stones have disappeared.
There none available for public viewing although
there are some random pictures of the artifacts.
In any case, the findings in the cave could
be proof of an ancient people that time forgot
but further research has proved to be impossible.
2.
Ritual Cat Claws
Another little known civilisation, known as
the Moche, lived on the northern coast of
Peru about 1,500 years ago.
Their lands stretched for 215 miles, and they
built numerous pyramids that still look over
the countryside.
In some cases they look more like hills after
hundreds of years of erosion.
There are also a number of temples and tombs,
one of which was discovered and explored in
2014.
Built for a 30 year old man, this tomb at
the Temple of the moon, known locally as the
Huaca de la Luna, had some very strange artifacts
inside it.
Alongside his body was a copper sceptre, bronze
earrings, a mask, and ceremonial ceramics,
but what stood out most were pieces that looked
like feline jaws and paws.
The claws are made from metal, and are thought
to have been part of a ritual costume that
was worn in ceremonial combat.
The trove of artifacts that were found show
that this man was a part of elite society,
but without any written records surviving
from the times, there’s still plenty we
don’t know about the mysterious Moche civilisation.
1.
Egyptian Spellbook
One of the most mysterious and intriguing
artifacts to ever be found is the ‘Handbook
of Ritual Power’.
Dating back to ancient Egypt, this book was
deciphered in 2014 and gave an insight into
the rituals and traditions of the most renowned
of the ancient civilisations.
It’s about 1,300 years old, and is written
in an Egyptian language called ‘Coptic’.
The 20 pages of parchment, known as a codex,
contain information about love spells, medical
treatments and even how to exorcise evil spirits.
There are lots of different incantations,
and instructions on how to make your desires
come true.
For example, one spell, used to subjugate
someone, requires a spell to be read over
two nails, and then for them to be driven
into that person’s doorpost.
It’s not entirely clear who would have used
this codex, but it’s thought to have been
written by an Egyptian Christian group known
as the Sethians.
They rose to prominence in Egypt during the
early days of Christianity, and worshipped
Adam and Eve’s third son, Seth.
The book also references another spiritual
figure, “Baktiotha”, who it says is a
“great power and a ruler of forces in the
material realm”.
No other mention of Baktiotha has ever been
found, so the true meaning and intent of this
Handbook may never truly be known- whether
it was intended for use in enlisting forces
for good, or for evil.
Thanks for watching!!